Hi everyone, and welcome to
this lesson on reactive planning.
In this video, we'll combine
some of the knowledge we
acquired from
the two previous lessons,
to develop a reactive motion
planning algorithm
known as the trajectory
roll-out planner.
This will introduce us to
the task of trajectory planning,
which will lay the groundwork
for us to progress to
more advanced planning methods
presented later in module seven.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to implement
the trajectory
roll-out algorithm.
This includes the trajectory
propagation step,
the collision checking step,
and the path selection step in
order to achieve
the desired goal state.
You should also understand how to
apply the receding
horizon concept
to planning and
the main drawbacks
associated with
this type of planner.
At a high level,
the trajectory
roll-out planner uses
the method of trajectory
propagation discussed in lesson
one to generate a set of
candidate trajectories
that the robot can
follow from its current
point in the workspace.
We then take the obstacle
information local to
the robot and determine
which paths are collision-free
and which aren't.
Of these collision-free paths,
we then select the one that
maximizes an objective function,
which will include a term that
rewards progress
towards the goal.
By performing this repeatedly,
we end up with a receding
horizon planner that reacts
to the environment while making
steady progress towards the goal.
Let's go over each
of these steps in
more detail so you can
implement this yourself.
The first step of
the algorithm is to
generate the set of
trajectories at each time step.
How do we do this?
For trajectory roll-out,
each trajectory will
correspond to applying
a fixed input to the robot for
multiple steps over
a constant time horizon.
We uniformly sample
these fixed inputs
across the range of
available input values
in order to
generate a variety of potential
candidate trajectories.
By reaching a wide variety of
trajectories across
the input spectrum,
we improve the quality of
our trajectory search and
our maneuverability
as we are exploring
a broader set of candidate
paths for the robot to take.
If we only use
a small range of inputs,
then our computation
time improves.
But there may be
potential trajectory candidates
that we miss out on
in our computation,
which could reduce the quality of
the trajectory generated
by our planner.
However, sampling
too many candidate trajectories
means that we have
additional computational
overhead at
each step as each
additional trajectory
will need to be generated,
checked for collisions,
and scored.
Once we've chosen
our set of inputs,
we then need to generate
the future states along
the trajectory by propagating
the state forward using
the kinematic model
of the vehicle as we
discussed in lesson one.
Recall that for
the bicycle model,
the two inputs are the velocity
in the steering angle.
If we hold the velocity constant,
but vary the steering
angle across
the range minus pie over
four to pie over four,
we now have a set of arcs as
our candidate trajectories.
These arcs are
generated by evaluating
the kinematic
equations recursively
as we discussed in lesson one.
Now that we have the set of arcs,
we can check to see which ones
are collision-free.
For a collision
checking algorithm,
we're going to assume that we
are given an occupancy grid
that represents a discretization
of the vehicles workspace.
This discretization
will be stored in
the form of a matrix
where each value of
the matrix will denote if
the corresponding position in
the workspace is occupied or not.
We can then perform
collision checking using
the swath-based method we
discussed in the previous video.
Recall that we
generate the swath by
sweeping the body of
the robot along the path,
and taking the union of
all the footprints at
each time step of
a given trajectory.
The footprint of the car
will correspond to
a set of indices in
the occupancy grid.
So each rotated and translated
point along the path
will also correspond to
different indices in
the occupancy grid.
These indices will be stored in
a set data structure to
eliminate duplicates.
We can then check each point of
the swath to see which points of
the swath overlap with
occupied elements of
the occupancy grid.
We do this by iterating through
each point in the swath set
and checking the associated index
in the occupancy grid
for an obstacle.
If any point in
the swath is occupied,
then that trajectory
contains a collision.
Once we've iterated through
every trajectory generated
in the previous step,
we will be left with a set of
collision-free kinematically
feasible trajectories
that we can then score using
our objective function.
The primary element that
every objective function
needs is some way
of rewarding progress towards
some goal point or region,
which is the ultimate goal
of our motion planning problem.
A simple and effective way
to do this is to
have a term in the objective
function that is
proportional to
the distance from the end
of the candidate trajectory
to the goal node.
However, sometimes
we will also want to
encourage other behavior
in our reactive planner.
As we saw in module one,
some examples of
objective functions include
minimizing the distance from
the center line of a lane,
we're penalizing
the curvature of a path.
Sometimes, we also
want to reward paths
that maximize the distance
to the nearest obstacle,
to maximize the flexibility of
feasible paths available to
future time steps in the planner.
As we discussed in module one,
there is no perfect
objective function,
and you will need to craft
your own objective functions
to fit your application.
For our reactive planner,
we will use the distance to
the goal as our objective
function to minimize,
which is the first
equation shown here.
Once we have
the objective function,
we can iterate over
the collision-free trajectories,
and pick the path that maximizes
the objective function,
or minimizes the penalty
depending on how you
formulate the objective.
Let's go over a concrete example
to bring the whole
algorithm together.
Pictured here, we
have the obstacles
in the occupancy grid
given in red,
the goal region in yellow,
and the initial point to
the car at zero, zero, zero.
Suppose our range of steering
angles is between minus pie
over four and pie over four
with a pie over eight step size,
and suppose we are using
a constant velocity of
0.5 meters per second.
In addition, let's assume
our planner is using
a time step of 0.1
seconds and each plan trajectory
lasts for two seconds in total.
If we apply our trajectory
propagation algorithm
that we outlined in lesson one
using our bicycle
kinematics model,
we can then generate
a set of paths for
each selected steering angle
in our steering range.
The first trajectory
has a steering angle of
minus pie over
four and as a result,
we can see that the trajectory
curves to the right.
Our next trajectory has
a steering angle of
minus pie over eight
and as you can see,
the trajectory generated has
a smaller curvature
than the first one.
Next, we have the zero
steering angle trajectory
which results in the car
driving forward in
a straight line.
The positive steering
angle trajectories
are symmetrical to
the negative steering angle
trajectories and as expected,
turn the car to the left.
Now that we have a candidate set
of trajectories,
we need to check each
one to see if they
are collision-free
using the collision
checking algorithm
we outlined in the last video,
and reviewed earlier in this one.
After translating and rotating
the footprints along
each trajectory,
we check each occupancy
grid index in
the resulting swath to see
if an obstacle is present.
If any of the indices
contain an obstacle,
then that path is marked
as having a collision,
which we've denoted
by the color red.
All collision-free paths
are colored green,
which we can then evaluate using
our objective function
to find the best one.
Recall that
our objective function
is the distance to the goal.
The path that minimizes
this distance
to the goal is now
colored in black.
This completes our first
planning iteration.
At this point, we now have
a trajectory for
the vehicle to execute.
However, we will
not fully execute
this trajectory before
the next planning cycle.
Instead, the vehicle will execute
only the first few points
of the cycle.
The exact number depends on
the planning frequency and
our planning horizon
will be shifted
forward depending
on our progress.
This is exactly the receding
horizon approach you applied to
vehicle control in
the first course in
this specialization.
Bringing this all together,
at each time step,
we plan a two-second trajectory,
but only execute one second
of it at a time.
By doing this, the end time of
our planning horizon
shifts forward by
one second for
each planning cycle.
This is known as
a receding horizon planner
because at each
planning cycle we have
a fixed planning time
horizon whose n times
slowly recedes towards
the time point
at which we reach the goal.
This is illustrated
here where the
black is the portion of
the trajectory that will
be executed on the current cycle
and the orange part is
the leftover portion.
Once the next planning
cycle begins,
we repeat the whole
process again.
We continue this process
until we compute
a trajectory that
reaches the goal region,
which we check at the end
of each iteration.
You can now see the rest of
the steps that the planner
took to the goal region
in our example problem.
One caveat to notice about
this planner is
that it is myopic.
That is, it doesn't plan
a path directly to the goal.
It instead greedily
sample sub-paths
according to how close they
get the robot to the goal.
This can cause the planner
to be shortsighted,
to get stuck in dead ends,
and in general, will
cause the planner
to find sub-optimal paths.
However, this planner greatly
reduces the complexity of
the planning problem to
the goal region and is fast
enough that it can be used
as an online planner.
To summarize this video,
we introduce the steps of
the trajectory roll-out
motion planning algorithm.
Combining the concepts
introduced in
the first two lessons regarding
trajectory propagation,
as well as, collision checking.
To cement this concept,
we went over an example from
this algorithm in action.
Finally, we introduced
the concept of receding
horizon planners and
discussed how they can be
shortsighted when planning
to the goal region.
By now, you should
have a good idea of
how the trajectory
roll-out algorithm works.
In our next lesson, we'll
be discussing dynamic windowing,
and how it can help our
trajectory roll-out algorithm
generate more comfortable
trajectories. Until then.